nyk0-nomikon - Resets

## Resets

The new year is coming. It is a great opportunity for resets, at least to the extend of our abilities. A couple of days ago, I reset my computer data and my operating system. I reached a point where I could not think about new things without falling back into old patterns. I'm tired of the 2020 ideas, like my notes, the zettelkastens, emacs and miscellaneous linux explorations.

I felt drained and meaningless. So I packed up everything into a zip file, backed it up and format my hard drive. I love Fedora, but since I was going for a new beginning I chose to go with Ubuntu. I like them both because my main need nowadays is to install an OS that works out of the box. Crazy customizations are not my cup of tea anymore.

I just got my music and a couple of useful files.

Today I was rethinking my whole blogging situation. The truth is, I don't know if anyone reads me and I fiddled with the idea to move to a platform where it would be easier to post, but I've decided to continue posting here for now. This [brilliant chart](https://rakhim.org/honestly-undefined/19/) by Rakhim.org captures the blogging subject perfectly and punches in the face of the technically inclined bloggers like myself. This drawing is a lesson.

Btw, I'm writing in vim now. I have no courage to setup emacs again.

Either way, I'm a mess for the time being but I looked back and realized I have already wrote 22 posts this year. That can't be so bad right?

> 🎼 Music as farewell: [Ton Koopman - Corelli: Concerto grosso op. 6 nº 8 - Orquesta Sinfónica de Galicia](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I8gl1TCz6a0)
