# The last guardian (PS4)

I don't play many games nowadays mainly due to adulthood. After all It is getting more and more difficult for a game to surprise me. And all those cut scenes in the modern movie-like games? They really annoy me.
Still, I will occasionally try some games that my kids play.

I currently play Fumito Ueda's "the last guardian" as often as I can. I started playing as a boredom reliever and I loved it. It is so minimal that doesn't seem like any other game. There are no complicated menus, HUDs or elaborated cut scenes. You just learn the game as you play it with some hints.

The story is about a boy and a huge mythical creature. They're trying to escape an ancient labyrinth-like place. In every scene the player has to figure out solutions to a wide range of problems to move further. The controls seem strange but life-like. I love the behavior of the creature which almost has a life of its own. Making it to do things is a challenge on its own.
I haven't seen a game like that in years, and the whole concept strongly reminded me of another classic PS2 game "Ico". I was pleased to find out that it was also a creation of mr.Ueda's team.

I enjoy playing that game. The riddles are not that hard and the world you're immersing into is slow and calm. The scenery is incredibly built with large buildings which make your character feel so small. In open spaces there is always the void under your feet and the danger of falling down. If something breaks me, is when the game emplores platform style. Over enormous cliffs where you barely see the bottom my acrophobia is hitting hard.

I don't know if I will manage to finish this game as it's getting harder the more I progress, but it's really enjoyable. And I'm still learning how to understand the creature.

## References
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Last_Guardian

    #gzk #games
